CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to Flexile

Thanks for your interest in contributing! This document will help you get started.

## Quick Start

1. Set up the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/antiwork/flexile.git
```

2. Set up your development environment

For detailed instructions on setting up your local development environment, please refer to our [README](README.md).

## Development

1. Create your feature branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature
```

2. Start the development environment

```bash
bin/dev
```

3. Run the test suite

```bash
# Run Rails specs
bundle exec rspec

# Run Playwright end-to-end tests
pnpm playwright test
```

## Testing Guidelines

- Write descriptive test names that explain the behavior being tested
- Keep tests independent and isolated
- For API endpoints, test response status, format, and content
- Use factories for test data instead of creating objects directly
- Test both happy path and edge cases

## Pull Request

1. Update documentation if you're changing behavior
2. Add or update tests for your changes
3. Include screenshots of your test suite passing locally
4. Make sure all tests pass
5. Request a review from maintainers
6. After reviews begin, avoid force-pushing to your branch
   - Force-pushing rewrites history and makes review threads hard to follow
   - Don't worry about messy commits - we squash everything when merging to main
7. The PR will be merged once you have the sign-off of at least one other developer

## Style Guide

- Follow the existing code patterns
- Use clear, descriptive variable names
- Write TypeScript for frontend code
- Follow Ruby conventions for backend code

## Writing Bug Reports

A great bug report includes:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

## Help

- Check existing discussions/issues/PRs before creating new ones
- Start a discussion for questions or ideas
- Open an [issue](https://github.com/antiwork/flexile/issues) for bugs or problems

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

Commit message:

feat(docs): add professional English communication requirement to PR guidelines
Co-Authored-By: sahil.lavingia@gmail.com <sahil.lavingia@gmail.com>

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to Flexile

Thanks for your interest in contributing! This document will help you get started.

## Quick Start

1. Set up the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/antiwork/flexile.git
```

2. Set up your development environment

For detailed instructions on setting up your local development environment, please refer to our [README](README.md).

## Development

1. Create your feature branch

```bash
git checkout -b feature/your-feature
```

2. Start the development environment

```bash
bin/dev
```

3. Run the test suite

```bash
# Run Rails specs
bundle exec rspec

# Run Playwright end-to-end tests
pnpm playwright test
```

## Testing Guidelines

- Write descriptive test names that explain the behavior being tested
- Keep tests independent and isolated
- For API endpoints, test response status, format, and content
- Use factories for test data instead of creating objects directly
- Test both happy path and edge cases

## Pull Request

1. Update documentation if you're changing behavior
2. Add or update tests for your changes
3. Include screenshots of your test suite passing locally
4. Use professional English in all communication with no excessive capitalization, question marks, or informal language - we have a zero tolerance policy as it makes async communication difficult
5. Make sure all tests pass
6. Request a review from maintainers
7. After reviews begin, avoid force-pushing to your branch
   - Force-pushing rewrites history and makes review threads hard to follow
   - Don't worry about messy commits - we squash everything when merging to main
8. The PR will be merged once you have the sign-off of at least one other developer

## Style Guide

- Follow the existing code patterns
- Use clear, descriptive variable names
- Write TypeScript for frontend code
- Follow Ruby conventions for backend code

## Writing Bug Reports

A great bug report includes:

- A quick summary and/or background
- Steps to reproduce
  - Be specific!
  - Give sample code if you can
- What you expected would happen
- What actually happens
- Notes (possibly including why you think this might be happening, or stuff you tried that didn't work)

## Help

- Check existing discussions/issues/PRs before creating new ones
- Start a discussion for questions or ideas
- Open an [issue](https://github.com/antiwork/flexile/issues) for bugs or problems

## License

By contributing, you agree that your contributions will be licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).
